docs(ci): new ci features in spinnaker (#2105)
spinnaker/spinnaker.github.io: guides/user/managed-delivery/intergate-your-CI/index.md

---
layout: single

> title:  "Integrate your CI"

Reviewer: Suggestion: 
```suggestion
title:  "Integrate your CI Builds"
```

sidebar:
  nav: guides
---

{% include toc %}

> One of Managed Delivery goals is to be able to show a code journey, from committing it until it gets deployed,
> in an easy, consistent way.
> In order to enable it, we created an integration between MD and the CI provider, which described below.

Reviewer: Suggestion:
```suggestion
One of the goals of Managed Delivery is to show you the journey of your code, from commit to deployment,
in an easy, consistent way.
In order to enable this experience, we created an integration between Managed Delivery and the Continuous Integration (CI) provider, which is described below.
```

Author: done

## Publishing a new artifact

> When a new artifact is published, `keel` gets notified by `echo` (for debians) or by `igor` (for dockers). Each artifact has a `metadata` section, which is controlled by the artifact supplier. 
> For example, for `docker` artifacts, the `metadata` field is being populated in `clouddriver` based on the docker registry. 
> 
> Here is an example of a docker artifact event, that `keel` is tracking:

Reviewer: Suggestions:
```suggestion
When a new artifact is published, `keel` gets notified by `echo` (for Debian packages) or by `igor` (for Docker images). Each artifact has a `metadata` section, which is populated by the corresponding artifact supplier implementation in `keel`. 
For example, for `docker` artifacts, the `metadata` field is populated by querying `clouddriver`, which stores information from the docker registries configured in the Spinnaker installation. 

Here is an example of a Docker artifact event tracked by `keel`:
```

Reviewer: @gal-yardeni Who's the target audience for this doc? I originally assumed it was users, but this is going deep into the "nitty gritty" of the implementation...

Author: @luispollo It's for users who wish to use the functionality we are offering. I wanted to explain the details of what we are doing so they can do the same if they wish. The aim of this doc is to explain the overview, plus how they can actually use it. Makes sense?

Reviewer: Kinda. As I've tried to explain in other comments, I think the definition of a "user" in the Spinnaker docs is someone who just interacts with the Spinnaker UI or CLI to use delivery and infrastructure management features, not someone who's concerned with the implementation details behind Spinnaker. We have other sections in the docs for developers, who'd be interested in the implementation details (`/guides/developer`) and operators , who'd be interested in how to configure the integration in their own installation of Spinnaker (`/guides/operator`). My suggestion is to split this content into specific pages for those specific audiences.

Author: Thanks Luis! what you are saying makes sense to me, but when I'm looking at the current spinnaker.io website I don't see any other guides splitted between sections 🤔 . 
I don't know what is the right call here -- if you are looking from the `user` lense as you mentioned, they can't really use it as is as this whole experience is applicable for Netflix only at this point. I'm not sure where is the right place to locate this guide. Curious to hear other thoughts maybe -- @emjburns / @erikmunson?

Author: After thinking about it for a bit, I'll split it between a user guide and a developer guide with cross-reference between them. will update the PR soon!

```
Received artifact published event: ArtifactPublishedEvent(artifacts=[PublishedArtifact(name=mce/agent, type=DOCKER,
	reference=dockerRegistry:v2:testregistry:mce/agent, version=h2012.2626f5f, customKind=false, location=testregistry, artifactAccount=null, provenance=null, uuid=null, metadata={date=1607111907158, registry=testregistry, fullname=mce/agent, tag=tag, commitId=2626f5f, buildNumber=2012, branch=tags/v1.2.0^0}
```

> In order to get more metadata per artifact (like build and git details), we created a convension that the `buildNumber` and `commitId` will be part of the artifact metadata object, regardless of the artifact type (it applicable for all types - docker, debians etc.).
> In this example, we will query our CI provider to get metadata for build number `2012` and commit id `2626f5f`.

Reviewer: Suggestions:
```suggestion
In order to get additional metadata for each tracked artifact (such as build and git details), we've created a convention that the `buildNumber` and `commitId` will be part of the artifact metadata object, regardless of the artifact type.
In this example, we will query our CI provider to get metadata for build number `2012` and commit id `2626f5f`.
```

> ## Artifact Metadata

Reviewer: For consistency:
```suggestion
## Artifact metadata
```

> 
> The metadata per artifact (like commit message, author, timestamp) is visible in the environment view UI, by clicking on an artifact version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Detailed metadata (like commit message, author, timestamp) is visible in the Environments view in the UI, by clicking on an artifact version.
```

Here's what it looks like in the UI:
{%
  include
  figure
  image_path="./artifact-metadata.png"
%}

In order to get the metadata information, you'll have to plug in your CI provider.
`keel` is calling `igor` to fetch this information. It uses the endpoint `<igorBaseURL>/ci/builds`, which looks like:
```
  @GET("/ci/builds")
  @Headers("Accept: application/json")
  suspend fun getArtifactMetadata(
    @Query("commitId") commitId: String,
    @Query("buildNumber") buildNumber: String,
    @Query("projectKey") projectKey: String? = null,
    @Query("repoSlug") repoSlug: String? = null,
    @Query("completionStatus") completionStatus: String? = null
  ): List<Build>?

> ```

Reviewer: This is another example of mixing developer documentation with user documentation. Users don't care about this stuff, nor will they ever have to touch it. I would suggest splitting this page in two, maybe even three: one for users (how to use CI integration), one for developers (how CI integration works under the covers), and another for operators (how to configure the CI integration).

Reviewer: P.S. This comment applies to the remainder of this section below.

  val properties: Map<String, Any?>? = null
)
```
The `build` object is a mirror object of [GenericBuild](https://github.com/spinnaker/igor/blob/master/igor-core/src/main/java/com/netflix/spinnaker/igor/build/model/GenericBuild.java) in `igor`.

If you are interested in plugging your CI provider, you'll need to do the following:
1. Create a fork to `igor`
2. Implement the `ci/builds` endpoint, and return a `GenericBuild` response (which is converted to `Build` object above).
- [Controller endpoints](https://github.com/spinnaker/igor/blob/master/igor-web/src/main/java/com/netflix/spinnaker/igor/ci/CiController.java)
- [Generic build service](https://github.com/spinnaker/igor/blob/master/igor-web/src/main/java/com/netflix/spinnaker/igor/ci/CiBuildService.java)
- Example: your service implementation should be somthing like:
```
 public class YourCompanyNameCIService implements CiBuildService[...]
```
3. Make sure the artifacts being sent to `keel` contains the `buildNumber` and `commitId`.

## Additional features

### See code changes between deployments

Now that we have git metadata for each artifact, we can easily figure out the code differences between each version.

> We added the `see changes` button in the UI, for each environment, which looks like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We added the `see changes` button in the UI, for each environment, which looks like this:
```

> We added the `see changes` button in the UI, for each environment, which looks like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We added the "See changes" button in the UI, for each environment, which looks like:
```

{%
  include
  figure
  image_path="./see-changes.png"
%}

> In slack notifications:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Slack notifications:
```

{%
  include
  figure
  image_path="./slack-see-changes.png"
%}

The logic of generating a comparable link is done in `keel`: [ArtifactVersionLinks](https://github.com/spinnaker/keel/blob/master/keel-core/src/main/kotlin/com/netflix/spinnaker/keel/artifacts/ArtifactVersionLinks.kt).

> Note: this supports only `stash` at the moment. We'll appreciate contributions for other SCMs!

Reviewer: Consider moving to developer docs.

### Surface build information in the UI
{%
  include
  figure
  image_path="./build-info.png"
%}

> A new section called `pre-deployment` is now available in the UI. This section will surface pre deployment steps like baking (for debians only) or building.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A new section called "Pre-deployment" is now available in the UI. This section will surface pre-deployment steps like baking (for Debian packages only) or building.
```

> By clicking on `see details`, you'll be navigated to the CI view (see below), or a default job log which you can provide as a part of your implementaion (in the `url` field in `Build` object, see above).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By clicking on "See details", you'll be taken to the CI view (see below), or a default job log which you can provide as a part of your implementation (in the `url` field in `Build` object, see above).
```
This is also mixing user with developer documentation.

### CI view in Spinnaker

> We recently added the option to see CI details into Spinnaker, in a new `builds` tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recently added the option to see CI details in Spinnaker, in a new "Builds" tab.
```

It looks like this:
{%
  include
  figure
  image_path="./ci-view.png"
%}

> This is a new tab that can be navigated from the main Spinnaker UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a new tab that can be accessed from the main Spinnaker UI.
```

The UI code (in deck) is calling `gate` service to fetch information, and `gate` is just calling `igor`.

If you wish to use it, this is what you'll need to do:
1. Create a fork to `igor`
2. Implement two endpoints:
- `ci/builds` which returns the `GenericBuild` object.
- `ci/builds/{buildId}/output` which returns the build's log by providing a build number, in a map format:
```
{"log": "...."}
```

- [Controller endpoints](https://github.com/spinnaker/igor/blob/master/igor-web/src/main/java/com/netflix/spinnaker/igor/ci/CiController.java)
- [Generic build service](https://github.com/spinnaker/igor/blob/master/igor-web/src/main/java/com/netflix/spinnaker/igor/ci/CiBuildService.java)
- Example: your service implementation should be something like:
```
 public class YourCompanyNameCIService implements CiBuildService[..]
```
Once both of these endpoints will be implemented, you'll be able to configure your application to show CI information in Spinnaker!

> Note: if you already implemented the `/ci/builds` endpoint as descries above, you'll just need to implement the `output` endpoint to get it working!

Reviewer: Consider moving to developer docs.

---
layout: single
title:  "Intergate your CI"
sidebar:
  nav: guides

> redirect_from: /reference/managed-delivery/intergate-your-CI

Reviewer 2: you don't need this because the page was never somewhere else. this is just for if it moved, which some of the other pages did

Author: removed it, thanks

In this example, we will query our CI provider to get metadata for build number `2012` and commit id `2626f5f`.

## Artifact Metadata

The metadata per artifact (like commit message, author, timestamp) is visible in the environment view UI, by clicking on an artifact version.

Here's what it looks like in the UI:
{%
  include
  figure
  image_path="./artifact-metadata.png"
%}

In order to get the metadata information, you'll have to plug in your CI provider.
`keel` is calling `igor` to fetch this information. It uses the endpoint `<igorBaseURL>/ci/builds`, which looks like:
```
  @GET("/ci/builds")
  @Headers("Accept: application/json")
  suspend fun getArtifactMetadata(
    @Query("commitId") commitId: String,
    @Query("buildNumber") buildNumber: String,
    @Query("projectKey") projectKey: String? = null,
    @Query("repoSlug") repoSlug: String? = null,
    @Query("completionStatus") completionStatus: String? = null
  ): List<Build>?

> ```

Reviewer 2: You should link to the igor file here

Reviewer 2: and any place where you put the code, I think you should also add the link to the file
